 Buried Peace - Design Document (Continued)
-

# 3. Engine

## 3.1 Overview

### 3.1.1 Goals

Key attributes of the engine include the following:

- Systemic Gameplay
- Player Agency
- Simplicity
- Development Ease

### 3.1.2 Engine Overview - Cycle

The engine consists of four foundational parts.

- Player
- World
- Input
- Output

### 3.1.3 Cycle Concept

All four of these make up a cycle.

    Player ----( Input  )----> World

    World  ----( Output )----> Player

### 3.1.4 Definitions

Let us define what each one does.

Component   | Definition
------------|----------------------
Player      | The player and their preferences / settings.
World       | The game and its logic
Input       | The input received from the user
Output      | Presents the world to the user

### 3.1.5 Examples

Each can have sub-components, of which some examples include:

Component   | Examples
------------|------
Player      | Name, Platform, Saved Profile
World       | Physics, Game Logic, Characters, Terrain
Input       | Keyboard, Mouse, Touch, Controller, Buttons, Checkboxes
Output      | Visual (Graphics), Audio, Tactile, Tone, Views

### 3.1.6 Islands

Two components are "islands": separate concepts we want to build bridges to.

- Player - The person (or machine in some cases) playing the game
- World - The virtual game environment, with characters, entities, systems, laws, etc.

### 3.1.7 Bridges

Two components are "bridges": one-way means of both islands communicating with one another.

- Input - **Player** sends messages to the *world*
- Output - **World** sends messages to the *player*

***
## 3.2 Player

### 3.2.1 Purpose

**Purpose**: Represents the information and preferences of the user.

### 3.2.2 Overview

Player is divided into three parts:

- Info
- Platform
- Preferences

### 3.2.3 Structure

Player has generics for info and platform. Info is an optional.

Each game can define their own info and platforms.

#### 3.2.3.1 PlayerInfo

Each game defines its own player info, which keeps track of player information, as well as stores things like user settings.

*Examples*: Name, Groups player is in, Saved Game Data specific to a player.

### 3.2.3.2 PlayerPlatform

Each build defines its own PlayerPlatform. The player constructor requires a PlayerPlatform to be initialized.

## 3.2.4 Start

*Required Parameters*

- PlayerPlatform

## 3.2.5 End

Player will break down as normal

## 3.2.6 Methods
    
Method | In | Out | Description
-------|----|-----|------------
Login | info: I, preferences: P | - | Sets info & preferences
Logout | - | - | Removes info and preferences
get_info | - | PlayerInfo: I |
get_platform | - | PlayerPlatform: Pl |
Is Logged In | - | bool | Returns if a player is playing

## 3.2.7 Components

***
# 3.3 World

## 3.3.1 Purpose

**Purpose**: Represents the virtual game world, such as the logic, characters, places, physics, terrains, UI, laws, etc.

## 3.3.2 Overview

The world contains the following components:

- Realm 
- Aspect (generic)
- Services (generic)

## 3.3.3 Structure

TODO: Revise

The Realm will be provided by the engine. Aspect must be provided, but many options exist baked into the engine. Services is also generic, and requires a struct providing which components are desired.

## 3.3.4 Start

World starts by initializing a Realm. It will require an aspect and services to be passed in its constructor.

## 3.3.5 End

World will call end on the aspect.

## 3.3.6 Methods


Method | In | Out | Description
-------|----|-----|------------
- | - | - | -
- | - | - | -


## 3.3.7 Components (Possible)

### 3.3.7.1 Realm

The Realm contains entities, such as trees, characters, etc.

Entities can be added or removed from the Realm.

Hashes are simply counted. It will overflow on reaching the max usize.

#### 3.3.7.1.1 Entity

An entity is a simple hash. They are created and destroyed. It has no other attributes. 

#### 3.3.7.1.2 Methods

Method | In | Out | Description
-------|----|-----|------------
Create | - | - | Creates a new entity and returns the ID
Destroy | id | Result<_,EntityErr> | Destroys the entity and its ID. Notifies aspect. Returns Err() if entity does not exist.

### 3.3.7.2 Aspect

Aspect maintains verbs.

Verbs link to entities. 

Aspect can retrieve Verbs linked to an entity.

#### 3.3.7.1.1 Verb

A verb is a state, event or action. It has an ID, and a vec of entity ids.

Verbs take one, two or three entity ids.

#### 3.3.7.1.2 State 

A state represents data. 

#### 3.3.7.1.3 Event

A verb which is announced.

#### 3.3.7.1.4 Action

A verb which performs once

#### 3.3.7.1.5 Progression

A verb which updates
 
#### 3.3.7.1.2 Methods

Method | In | Out | Description
-------|----|-----|------------
Get | - | - | Creates a new entity and returns the ID
Destroy | id | Result<_,EntityErr> | Destroys the entity and its ID. Notifies aspect. Returns Err() if entity does not exist.

### 3.3.7.3 Services

***
# 3.4 Input

## 3.4.1 Purpose
## 3.4.2 Overview
## 3.4.3 Structure
## 3.4.4 Start
## 3.4.5 End
## 3.4.6 Methods
Method | In | Out | Description
-------|----|-----|------------
- | - | - | -
- | - | - | -


## 3.4.7 Components

***
# 3.5 Output

## 3.5.1 Purpose
## 3.5.2 Overview
## 3.5.3 Structure
## 3.5.4 Start
## 3.5.5 End
## 3.5.6 Methods
Method | In | Out | Description
-------|----|-----|------------
- | - | - | -
- | - | - | -
## 3.5.7 Components